Add docs for agent TLS authentication (#1783)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.14/guides/securing-sensu.md

---
title: "Securing Sensu"

> description: "As with all software, it’s important to minimize any attack surface exposed by the software. Sensu is no different. In this guide, you’ll learn about the components that need to be secured (and how to do so)."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "It’s important to minimize any attack surface exposed by any software, and Sensu is no different. This guide explains the components that need to be secured (and how to do so)."
```

weight: 1000
version: "5.14"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-go-5.13:
    parent: guides
---

> As with any piece of software, it is critical to minimize any attack surface exposed by the software. Sensu is no different. The following component pieces need to be secured in order for Sensu to be considered production ready:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's critical to minimize any attack surface exposed by any piece of software, and Sensu is no different. Secure the following component pieces to make sure Sensu is production-ready:
```

{{< /highlight >}}

If you have an enterprise license, then you can also generate a certificate for agent TLS authentication.

{{< highlight shell >}}
export NAME=agent-1
echo '{"CN":"'$NAME'","hosts":[""],"key":{"algo":"rsa","size":2048}}' | cfssl gencert -config=ca-config.json -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -hostname="" -profile=client - | cfssljson -bare $NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

See [etcd's guide to generating self signed certificates][11] for detailed instructions on securing etcd.

Once done, you should have the following files created. The `*.csr` files will not be used in this guide.
{{< highlight shell >}}
agent-1-key.pem
agent-1.csr
agent-1.pem
backend-1-key.pem
backend-1.csr
backend-1.pem
backend-2-key.pem
backend-2.csr
backend-2.pem
backend-3-key.pem
backend-3.csr
backend-3.pem
ca-config.json
ca-key.pem
ca.csr
ca.pem
client-key.pem
client.csr
client.pem
{{< /highlight >}}

Hopefully you've found this useful! If you find any issues or have any questions, feel free to reach out in our [Community Slack][3], or [open an issue][4] on Github.

<!-- LINKS -->

> [1]: /sensu-core/latest/guides/securing-sensu/

Reviewer: Should this link to Sensu Go instead?
/sensu-go/latest/guides/securing-sensu/

Reviewer 2: Double-check me, but it looks like this link is unused in the document body.

_NOTE: If creating a Sensu cluster, every cluster member needs to be present in the configuration. See the [Sensu Go clustering guide][2] for more information on how to configure agents for a clustered configuration._

**LICENSED TIER**: Unlock client TLS authentication in Sensu Go with a Sensu license. To activate your license, see the [getting started guide][6].

## Sensu agent TLS authentication

> By default, Sensu Agents require username and password authentication to communicate with Sensu Backends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Sensu agents require username and password authentication to communicate with Sensu backends.
```

> (For Sensu's [default user credentials][3] and more information about configuring Sensu role based access control, see the [RBAC reference][4] and [guide to creating users][5].)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Sensu's [default user credentials][3] and details about configuring Sensu role-based access control, see the [RBAC reference][4] and [guide to creating users][5].
```

Sensu can also use TLS authentication for connecting agents to backends. When agent TLS authentication is enabled, agents do not need to send
password credentials to backends when they connect. Additionally, when using TLS authentication, agents do not require an explicit user

> in Sensu - they will simply default to using the 'system:agents' group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in Sensu--they will default to using the 'system:agents' group.
```

> Agents can still be bound to a specific user, for situations where the system:agents group is problematic. For this use case, simply create a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agents can still be bound to a specific user when the `system:agents` group is problematic. For this use case, create a
```

> user that matches the Common Name (CN) of the agent's certificate. (Note: the user will need the ability to create events in the agent's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user that matches the Common Name (CN) of the agent's certificate.

_NOTE: Users will need the ability to create events in the agent's namespace. Users who want to ensure that agents with incorrect CN fields can't access the backend can remove the default 'system:agents' group._
```

> _NOTE: Users will need the ability to create events in the agent's namespace. Users who want to ensure that agents with incorrect CN fields can't access the backend can remove the default 'system:agents' group._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Sensu agents will need the ability to create events in the agent's namespace. Sensu operators who want to ensure that agents with incorrect CN fields can't access the backend can remove the default 'system:agents' group.
```

> namespace. If users want to ensure that agents with incorrect CN fields can't access the backend, they can remove the default 'system:agents'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> group.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> It's easy to view what a certificate's CN is, with openssl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view a certificate's CN with openssl:
```

{{< highlight bash >}}
$ openssl x509 -in client.pem -text -noout
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number:
            37:57:7b:04:1d:67:63:7b:ff:ae:39:19:5b:55:57:80:41:3c:ec:ff
        Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: CN = CA
        Validity
            Not Before: Sep 26 18:58:00 2019 GMT
            Not After : Sep 24 18:58:00 2024 GMT
        Subject: CN = client
...
{{< /highlight >}}

> Note that the `Subject:` field indicates the certificate's CN is 'client', so operators who want to bind the agent to a particular user in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Subject:` field indicates the certificate's CN is 'client', so operators who want to bind the agent to a particular user in
```

Sensu can create a user called 'client'.

> To enable agent TLS authentication, use existing certificates and keys for the sensu backend and agent,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable agent TLS authentication, use existing certificates and keys for the Sensu backend and agent
```

or create new certificates and keys according to our [guide](#creating-self-signed-certificates).

Once backend and agent certificates are created, modfiy the backend and agent configuration as follows:

{{< highlight yml >}}
##
# backend configuration
##
agent-auth-cert-file: "/path/to/backend-1.pem"
agent-auth-key-file: "/path/to/backend-1-key.pem"
agent-auth-trusted-ca-file: "/path/to/ca.pem"
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
##
# agent configuration
##
cert-file: "/path/to/agent-1.pem"
key-file: "/path/to/agent-1-key.pem"
trusted-ca-file: "/path/to/ca.pem"
{{< /highlight >}}

It's possible to use certificates for authentication that are distinct from other communication channels used by Sensu, like etcd or the API.
However, deployments can also use the same certificates and keys for etcd peer and client communication, the HTTP API, and agent
authentication, without issue.

## Creating self-signed certificates for securing etcd and backend-agent communication

We will use the [cfssl][10] tool to generate our self-signed certificates.

> The first step is to create a **Certificate Authority (CA)**. In order to keep things simple, we will generate all our clients and peer certificates using this CA, but you might eventually want to create distinct CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to create a **Certificate Authority (CA)**. To keep things straightforward, we will generate all our clients and peer certificates using this CA, but you might eventually want to create distinct CA.
```

{{< /highlight >}}

Then, using that CA, we can generate certificates and keys for each peer (backend server) by
specifying their **Common Name (CN)** and their **hosts**. A `*.pem`, `*.csr` and `*.pem` will
be created for each backend.

{{< highlight shell >}}
export ADDRESS=10.0.0.1,backend-1
export NAME=backend-1
echo '{"CN":"'$NAME'","hosts":[""],"key":{"algo":"rsa","size":2048}}' | cfssl gencert -config=ca-config.json -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -hostname="$ADDRESS" -profile=peer - | cfssljson -bare $NAME

export ADDRESS=10.0.0.2,backend-2
export NAME=backend-2
echo '{"CN":"'$NAME'","hosts":[""],"key":{"algo":"rsa","size":2048}}' | cfssl gencert -config=ca-config.json -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -hostname="$ADDRESS" -profile=peer - | cfssljson -bare $NAME

export ADDRESS=10.0.0.3,backend-3
export NAME=backend-3
echo '{"CN":"'$NAME'","hosts":[""],"key":{"algo":"rsa","size":2048}}' | cfssl gencert -config=ca-config.json -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -hostname="$ADDRESS" -profile=peer - | cfssljson -bare $NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

We will also create generate a *client* certificate that can be used by clients to connect to

> the etcd client URL. This time, we don't need to specify an address but simply a **Common Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the etcd client URL. This time, we don't need to specify an address, only a **Common Name
```

> (CN)** (here `client`). The files `client-key.pem`, `client.csr` and `client.pem` will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(CN)** (here, `client`). The files `client-key.pem`, `client.csr`, and `client.pem` will be created.
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
export NAME=client
echo '{"CN":"'$NAME'","hosts":[""],"key":{"algo":"rsa","size":2048}}' | cfssl gencert -config=ca-config.json -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -hostname="" -profile=client - | cfssljson -bare $NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

> If you have an enterprise license, then you can also generate a certificate for agent TLS authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have  Sensu license, you can also generate a certificate for agent TLS authentication.
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
export NAME=agent-1
echo '{"CN":"'$NAME'","hosts":[""],"key":{"algo":"rsa","size":2048}}' | cfssl gencert -config=ca-config.json -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -hostname="" -profile=client - | cfssljson -bare $NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

> See [etcd's guide to generating self signed certificates][11] for detailed instructions on securing etcd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [etcd's guide to generating self-signed certificates][11] for detailed instructions on securing etcd.
```

> Once done, you should have the following files created. The `*.csr` files will not be used in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're finished, the following files should be created. The `*.csr` files will not be used in this guide.
```
